LAYERED QUEUEING NETWORK MODELING SOFTWARE

Commands:

lqns         -- Analytical model solver
lqsim        -- Model simulator
srvndiff     -- Result file differencer.
lqn2ps       -- Model formatter and converter

Type "<command> --help" for a quick summary of usage.

Documents:

lqn2ps.pdf     -- Postscrpt version of man-page for srvn2eepic.
lqns.pdf       -- manual page for the analytic solver.
lqsim.pdf      -- manual page for simulator.
srvndiff.pdf   -- manual page for srvndiff.
tutorial.pdf   -- Tutorial for Layered Queueing Networks
userman.pdf    -- User manual for Layered Queueing Network solvers.

Jlqndef:

Jlqndef is an editor for Layered Queueing Network model files.  It is
not included with this package, but is available as a separate
download.

Requirements for jlqndef:

Set the environment variable LQNDIR to the path of the lqn root
directory (eg $HOME/lqn).

Set the environment variable TMPDIR to the path of the directory in
which to store temporary files (eg /tmp).

Add the directory $LQNDIR/bin to your executables search path.

The graphical model editor is written in java and uses Swing 
components of Java 2, so either JDK1.2.x or JRE1.2.x must be 
installed on your machine. 
These packages are available from Sun Microsystems:
http://java.sun.com/jdk.
The directory of the java or jre binary must be in the
executables search path.
To run Java 2, Solaris 2.6 or greater is required.

Examples:

Change into the $LQNDIR/examples directory and run

        jlqndef &

Load one of the examples using the file menu. The document lqndef.ps
has a step-by-step tutorial on using the tool.  It will guide you
through the examples.  There may be some minor differences between the
tool and the guide but they should not be a problem.

Some Tips:

1) When creating a model with jlqndef, add all the model's processors
first, then add the tasks and entries and finally add the calls
between entries.

If there are any questions or if you discover a bug, please contact us
by email at artt@sce.carleton.ca.

--
Murray Woodside                      Systems And Computer Engineering, 
(613) 520-5721     (voice)           Carleton University,
(613) 520-5727       (fax)           1125 Colonel By Drive,
cmw@sce.carleton.ca                  Ottawa, Ontario, Canada  K1S 5B6.
